2020-04-08-Hummingboard-Buildroot-Yocto.md: add post to beta (#231)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2020-04-08-Hummingboard-Buildroot-Yocto.md

---
title: HummingBoard Pulse with Yocto and Buildroot
abstract: 'In this article, I will show you how to build and run the image from
           Yocto Project and SolidRun at HummingBoard Pulse. Furthermore, you
           can find here examples of which tools and configurations were used.'
cover: /covers/yocto-vs-buildroot.png
author: cezary.sobczak
layout: post
published: true
date: 2020-04-08
archives: "2020"

tags:
  - SolidRun
  - Buildroot
  - HummingBoard
  - Yocto
  - u-boot
categories:
  - Miscellaneous
  - OS Dev

---

## Introduction
In this article, I will describe differences between two types of system

> images, i.e. SolidRun and Yocto. I was using a HummingBoard Pulse as a platform

Reviewer: SolidRun is a company (vendor) of the HB boards. It sounds like it is an image type?

for my work. Wide description of a board you can found on
[this](https://developer.solid-run.com/knowledge-base/hummingboard-pulse-getting-started/)
website. After reading this, you will better understand which basics components
are important for building own Linux distribution and how to use tools to do it.

![hummingboard](/covers/hummboard.jpg)

## Start work with a HummingBoard
It's several things you need to possess:

* Linux at your PC (because this way is easier)
* 16GB Micro SD card
* 12V Power adapter (the board has wide-range input of 7V-36V but 12V is
recommended)
* MicroUSB to USB for the console because the HummingBoard Pulse has an onboard
FTDI chip, which means that there is no need to use external UART/USB converter
* HummingBoard with SOM of course

## Build and run a Buildroot image

> Buildroot was made by a SolidRun company as a target platform for their devices.

Reviewer: It sounds like the Buildroot itself was made by the SolidRun. SolidRun have just added a target for their board to the Buildroot build system.

For iMX8M includes a custom config pre-configured to pull in the latest

> **u-boot** and **Linux kernel** from the SolidRun BSP.

Reviewer: U-Boot shall always be used in a written texts

  Warning: host file "./lib/gcc/aarch64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/7.4.0/plugin/include/highlev-plugin-common.h" is touched by more than one package: [u'host-gcc-initial', u'host-gcc-final']
  Warning: host file "./lib/gcc/aarch64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/7.4.0/plugin/include/tree-hasher.h" is touched by more than one package: [u'host-gcc-initial', u'host-gcc-final']
  Warning: host file "./lib/gcc/aarch64-buildroot-linux-uclibc/7.4.0/plugin/include/cfg-flags.def" is touched by more than one package: [u'host-gcc-initial', u'host-gcc-final']
  ```

4. Now our image has to be flashed at SD card.

    ```bash
    sudo dd if=output/images/sdcard.img of=/dev/sdX bs=4M conv=fsync
    ```

     > `/dev/sdX` means a USB adapter device with SD card for example `sdc`

5. Check how it looks like at a HummingBoard

    ```bash
    sudo minicom -b 115200 -D /dev/ttyUSBx
    ```

    > Note: you need to connect a MicroUSB port with PC

## Build and run a Yocto image
SolidRun does not provide Yocto support for **imx8**.
For this purpose repository `3mdeb/meta-imx8` was created. It contains
BSP layers for **HummingBoard Pulse** now only, but support for

> other **imx8** platforms will be available in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other **imx8** could be available in the future.
```

> 

Reviewer: We might also push support for this board to one of the already existing Yocto meta-layers.

As you may know, Yocto Project is using a `bitbake`, so for easier
management and update components, we are using a tool named `kas`. In more
details, it is described in earlier [blog](https://blog.3mdeb.com/2019/2019-02-07-kas/)
and [documentation](https://kas.readthedocs.io/en/1.0/).

> For HummingBoard Pulse this layers was used:

Reviewer: Use grammarly.com

* meta-freescale
* meta-freescale-distro
* meta-imx8
* meta-openembedded

`meta-imx8` is our custom layer, where we made modifications. You can find
here machines, layers and kernel configurations, BSP and kernel recipes.
We create or modify a BSP recipes for few elements:

* **ARM Trusted Firmware** for secure boot

> * **u-boot** as a bootloader

Reviewer: U-Boot
